README.md, before:

# E-commerce Project for Web Systems

This is the repository for an e-commerce project for tech products, developed for the Web Systems course.

## 🚀 Development Environment Setup

To run the project locally, you need to set up both the backend and the frontend.

### Prerequisites

* [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) (recommended version: 18.x or higher)
* [Angular CLI](https://angular.io/cli)
* A [MySQL](https://www.mysql.com/) or [MariaDB](https://mariadb.org/) database server running locally.

---

### ⚙️ Database Setup

The backend requires a connection to a MySQL/MariaDB database to work. Follow these steps to set it up correctly.

**1. Create the Database**

Log in to your MySQL/MariaDB client with a user that has privileges to create databases (usually the `root` user) and run the following command:

```sql
CREATE DATABASE ecommerce_db CHARACTER SET utf8mb4 COLLATE utf8mb4_unicode_ci;
```

**2. Create a User and Grant Privileges (Recommended)**

For security reasons, it's recommended to create a specific user that only has access to the e-commerce database. Replace `'your_user'` and `'your_password'` with your preferred credentials.

```sql
-- Run these commands as the 'root' user
CREATE USER 'your_user'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY 'your_password';
GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON ecommerce_db.* TO 'your_user'@'localhost';
FLUSH PRIVILEGES;
```

**3. Create the Tables**

The database tables are created by running the SQL script provided in the repository. Assuming you are in the project's root folder, run this command from your terminal:

```bash
# Replace 'your_user' with the username you chose
mysql -u your_user -p ecommerce_db < ./backend/database/schema.sql
```

*(Note: This command assumes the table creation script is located at `backend/database/schema.sql`)*

**4. Configure the Backend Connection**

The backend reads the database credentials from a configuration file to avoid hardcoding them into the source code.

* In the `backend/` folder, create a file named `.env`.
* Copy the contents of `.env.example` (if it exists) or insert the following variables, customizing them with your data:

```env
# File: backend/.env

DB_HOST=localhost
DB_USER=your_user
DB_PASSWORD=your_password
DB_NAME=ecommerce_db
DB_PORT=3306
JWT_SECRET=your_jwt_secret
```

Make sure the `.env` file is included in your `.gitignore` to avoid committing your credentials to GitHub.

---

### 🏛️ Database Architecture (Schema)

This section describes the structure of each table in the database.

#### Table: `Addresses`
Stores users' shipping addresses.

| Column Name | Data Type | Description and Constraints |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | Primary Key (PK), Auto-incrementing. |
| `user_id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | FK to `Users.id`. |
| `street` | `VARCHAR(255)` | Not Null. |
| `city` | `VARCHAR(100)` | Not Null. |
| `postal_code` | `VARCHAR(10)` | Not Null. |
| `province` | `VARCHAR(100)` | Not Null. |
| `country` | `VARCHAR(100)` | Not Null. |
| `is_default` | `BOOLEAN` | Not Null, Default: `FALSE`. |

#### Table: `Attributes`
Defines product characteristics (e.g., "Color").

| Column Name | Data Type | Description and Constraints |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | PK, Auto-incrementing. |
| `created_at` | `TIMESTAMP` | Default: current timestamp. |
| `updated_at` | `TIMESTAMP` | Updates automatically. |

#### Table: `Attribute_Translations`
Translations for attributes.

| Column Name | Data Type | Description and Constraints |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `attribute_id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | Composite PK, FK to `Attributes.id`. |
| `language_code` | `VARCHAR(5)` | Composite PK (e.g., 'en-US'). |
| `name` | `VARCHAR(100)` | Not Null. |

#### Table: `Attribute_Values`
Contains specific values for an attribute (e.g., "Black").

| Column Name | Data Type | Description and Constraints |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | PK, Auto-incrementing. |
| `attribute_id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | FK to `Attributes.id`. |
| `hex_code` | `VARCHAR(7)` | Nullable (for colors). |

#### Table: `Attribute_Value_Translations`
Translations for attribute values.

| Column Name | Data Type | Description and Constraints |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `attribute_value_id`| `INT UNSIGNED` | Composite PK, FK to `Attribute_Values.id`. |
| `language_code` | `VARCHAR(5)` | Composite PK. |
| `value` | `VARCHAR(100)` | Not Null. |

#### Table: `Brands`
Contains product brands.

| Column Name | Data Type | Description and Constraints |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | PK, Auto-incrementing. |
| `logo_url` | `VARCHAR(255)` | Nullable. |

#### Table: `Brand_Translations`
Translations for brands.

| Column Name | Data Type | Description and Constraints |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `brand_id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | Composite PK, FK to `Brands.id`. |
| `language_code` | `VARCHAR(5)` | Composite PK. |
| `name` | `VARCHAR(100)` | Not Null. |
| `description` | `TEXT` | Nullable. |

#### Table: `Categories`
Contains product categories, with support for sub-categories.

| Column Name | Data Type | Description and Constraints |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | PK, Auto-incrementing. |
| `parent_category_id` | `INT UNSIGNED`| Nullable, FK to `Categories.id`. |

#### Table: `Category_Translations`
Translations for categories.

| Column Name | Data Type | Description and Constraints |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `category_id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | Composite PK, FK to `Categories.id`. |
| `language_code` | `VARCHAR(5)` | Composite PK. |
| `name` | `VARCHAR(100)` | Not Null. |
| `description` | `TEXT` | Nullable. |

#### Table: `Coupons`
Manages discount coupons.

| Column Name | Data Type | Description and Constraints |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | PK, Auto-incrementing. |
| `code` | `VARCHAR(50)` | Unique, Not Null. |
| `discount_type` | `ENUM(...)` | Type: 'percentage' or 'fixed_amount'. |
| `discount_value`| `DECIMAL(10, 2)`| Not Null. |
| `expiry_date` | `TIMESTAMP` | Nullable. |
| `minimum_spend` | `DECIMAL(10, 2)`| Nullable. |
| `usage_limit` | `INT UNSIGNED` | Nullable. |
| `usage_limit_per_user`| `INT UNSIGNED` | Nullable. |
| `is_active` | `BOOLEAN` | Not Null, Default: `TRUE`. |

#### Table: `Orders`
Main information for orders.

| Column Name | Data Type | Description and Constraints |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | PK, Auto-incrementing. |
| `user_id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | FK to `Users.id`. |
| `shipping_address_id` | `INT UNSIGNED`| FK to `Addresses.id`. |
| `coupon_id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | Nullable, FK to `Coupons.id`. |
| `total_amount` | `DECIMAL(10, 2)`| Not Null. |
| `status` | `VARCHAR(50)` | Not Null, Default: 'pending'. |
| `tracking_number` | `VARCHAR(100)`| Nullable. |

#### Table: `Order_Items`
Products contained in an order.

| Column Name | Data Type | Description and Constraints |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | PK, Auto-incrementing. |
| `order_id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | FK to `Orders.id`. |
| `variant_id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | FK to `Product_Variants.id`. |
| `quantity` | `INT UNSIGNED` | Not Null. |
| `price_per_unit`| `DECIMAL(10, 2)`| Price at the time of purchase. |

#### Table: `Order_Tracking_History`
History of tracking statuses.

| Column Name | Data Type | Description and Constraints |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | PK, Auto-incrementing. |
| `order_id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | FK to `Orders.id`. |
| `status` | `VARCHAR(50)` | Not Null. |
| `notes` | `TEXT` | Nullable. |
| `changed_at`| `TIMESTAMP` | Default: current timestamp. |

#### Table: `Product_Categories`
Links products and categories (Many-to-Many).

| Column Name | Data Type | Description and Constraints |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `product_id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | Composite PK, FK to `Products.id`. |
| `category_id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | Composite PK, FK to `Categories.id`. |

#### Table: `Product_Reviews`
User-submitted reviews for products.

| Column Name | Data Type | Description and Constraints |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | PK, Auto-incrementing. |
| `product_id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | FK to `Products.id`. |
| `user_id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | FK to `Users.id`. |
| `rating` | `TINYINT UNSIGNED` | Not Null, Value between 1 and 5. |
| `title` | `VARCHAR(255)` | Nullable. |
| `comment` | `TEXT` | Nullable. |
| `is_verified_purchase` | `BOOLEAN` | Not Null, Default: `FALSE`. |
| `created_at` | `TIMESTAMP` | Default: current timestamp. |

#### Table: `Products`
The "conceptual" or "parent" product.

| Column Name | Data Type | Description and Constraints |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | PK, Auto-incrementing. |
| `brand_id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | Nullable, FK to `Brands.id`. |
| `is_active` | `BOOLEAN` | Default: `TRUE`. |
| `is_featured` | `BOOLEAN` | Default: `FALSE`. |

#### Table: `Product_Translations`
Translations for products.

| Column Name | Data Type | Description and Constraints |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `product_id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | Composite PK, FK to `Products.id`. |
| `language_code` | `VARCHAR(5)` | Composite PK. |
| `name` | `VARCHAR(255)`| Not Null. |
| `description` | `TEXT` | Nullable. |
| `features` | `JSON` | Nullable (for technical specs). |

#### Table: `Product_Variants`
The physical, sellable item, with price and stock.

| Column Name | Data Type | Description and Constraints |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | PK, Auto-incrementing. |
| `product_id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | FK to `Products.id`. |
| `sku` | `VARCHAR(100)`| Unique, Not Null. |
| `price` | `DECIMAL(10, 2)`| Not Null. |
| `sale_price` | `DECIMAL(10,2)` | Nullable. |
| `sale_start_date` | `TIMESTAMP` | Nullable. |
| `sale_end_date` | `TIMESTAMP` | Nullable. |
| `stock_quantity`| `INT` | Not Null, Default: 0. |
| `is_default` | `BOOLEAN` | Default: `FALSE`. |

#### Table: `Users`
Manages users and their roles.

| Column Name | Data Type | Description and Constraints |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | PK, Auto-incrementing. |
| `email` | `VARCHAR(255)`| Unique, Not Null. |
| `password_hash` | `VARCHAR(255)`| Not Null. |
| `first_name` | `VARCHAR(100)`| Nullable. |
| `last_name` | `VARCHAR(100)`| Nullable. |
| `role` | `ENUM(...)` | 'customer' or 'admin', Default: 'customer'. |
| `is_active` | `BOOLEAN` | Default: `TRUE`. |

#### Table: `Variant_Attributes`
Links a variant to its attribute values (Many-to-Many).

| Column Name | Data Type | Description and Constraints |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `variant_id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | Composite PK, FK to `Product_Variants.id`.|
| `attribute_value_id`| `INT UNSIGNED` | Composite PK, FK to `Attribute_Values.id`.|

#### Table: `Wishlist_Items`
Contains users' wishlists.

| Column Name | Data Type | Description and Constraints |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `user_id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | Composite PK, FK to `Users.id`. |
| `variant_id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | Composite PK, FK to `Product_Variants.id`.|
| `added_at` | `TIMESTAMP` | Default: current timestamp. |

---
### Running the Application

Once the database is set up, you can start the application.

1.  **Start the Backend:**
    ```bash
    cd backend
    npm install
    npm start
    ```

2.  **Start the Frontend (in a separate terminal):**
    ```bash
    cd frontend
    npm install
    ng serve
    ```

The application will be available at `http://localhost:4200`.

Commit message:

feat(home): implement home page layout with featured products, latest offers, and new arrivals sections
- Added home component with HTML structure and CSS styles.
- Integrated product service to fetch featured products, latest offers, and new arrivals.
- Implemented pagination for featured products and offers.
- Added intersection observers for lazy loading of carousel items.
- Included translation support for dynamic content.

README.md, after:

# E-commerce Project for Web Systems

This is the repository for an e-commerce project for tech products, developed for the Web Systems course.

## 🚀 Development Environment Setup

To run the project locally, you need to set up both the backend and the frontend.

### Prerequisites

* [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) (recommended version: 18.x or higher)
* [Angular CLI](https://angular.io/cli)
* A [MySQL](https://www.mysql.com/) or [MariaDB](https://mariadb.org/) database server running locally.

---

### ⚙️ Database Setup

The backend requires a connection to a MySQL/MariaDB database to work. Follow these steps to set it up correctly.

**1. Create the Database**

Log in to your MySQL/MariaDB client with a user that has privileges to create databases (usually the `root` user) and run the following command:

```sql
CREATE DATABASE ecommerce_db CHARACTER SET utf8mb4 COLLATE utf8mb4_unicode_ci;
```

**2. Create a User and Grant Privileges (Recommended)**

For security reasons, it's recommended to create a specific user that only has access to the e-commerce database. Replace `'your_user'` and `'your_password'` with your preferred credentials.

```sql
-- Run these commands as the 'root' user
CREATE USER 'your_user'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY 'your_password';
GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON ecommerce_db.* TO 'your_user'@'localhost';
FLUSH PRIVILEGES;
```

**3. Create the Tables**

The database tables are created by running the SQL script provided in the repository. Assuming you are in the project's root folder, run this command from your terminal:

```bash
# Replace 'your_user' with the username you chose
mysql -u your_user -p ecommerce_db < ./backend/database/schema.sql
```

*(Note: This command assumes the table creation script is located at `backend/database/schema.sql`)*

**4. Configure the Backend Connection**

The backend reads the database credentials from a configuration file to avoid hardcoding them into the source code.

* In the `backend/` folder, create a file named `.env`.
* Copy the contents of `.env.example` (if it exists) or insert the following variables, customizing them with your data:

```env
# File: backend/.env

DB_HOST=localhost
DB_USER=your_user
DB_PASSWORD=your_password
DB_NAME=ecommerce_db
DB_PORT=3306
JWT_SECRET=your_jwt_secret
```

Make sure the `.env` file is included in your `.gitignore` to avoid committing your credentials to GitHub.

**5. Product Image Setup (Important)**

For copyright and repository size reasons, the product images are not included in this Git repository. To make the application display correctly, you need to add the images manually after cloning.

- Create the necessary folders: In the `backend/` directory, create the following folder structure: `public/images/products/`
- Add Product Images: Place your product images inside the `backend/public/images/products/` folder.
- Naming Convention:  The images must be named according to the `sku` of the product variant defined in the `database/seeding.sql` script. It is recommended to add a suffix for multiple images of the same variant.
    - Example for SKU `DEL-XPS13-16-512`:
        - Primary image: `DEL-XPS13-16-512_1.png`
        - Second image: `DEL-XPS13-16-512_2.png`
    - Example for SKU `SONY-XM5-BLK`:
        - Primary image: `SONY-XM5-BLK_1.png`

The seeding script already contains the correct paths to these files. Once you place the images with the correct names in the correct folder, the application will display them automatically.

---

### 🏛️ Database Architecture (Schema)

This section describes the structure of each table in the database.

#### Table: `Addresses`
Stores users' shipping addresses.

| Column Name | Data Type | Description and Constraints |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | Primary Key (PK), Auto-incrementing. |
| `user_id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | FK to `Users.id`. |
| `street` | `VARCHAR(255)` | Not Null. |
| `city` | `VARCHAR(100)` | Not Null. |
| `postal_code` | `VARCHAR(10)` | Not Null. |
| `province` | `VARCHAR(100)` | Not Null. |
| `country` | `VARCHAR(100)` | Not Null. |
| `is_default` | `BOOLEAN` | Not Null, Default: `FALSE`. |

#### Table: `Attributes`
Defines product characteristics (e.g., "Color").

| Column Name | Data Type | Description and Constraints |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | PK, Auto-incrementing. |
| `created_at` | `TIMESTAMP` | Default: current timestamp. |
| `updated_at` | `TIMESTAMP` | Updates automatically. |

#### Table: `Attribute_Translations`
Translations for attributes.

| Column Name | Data Type | Description and Constraints |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `attribute_id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | Composite PK, FK to `Attributes.id`. |
| `language_code` | `VARCHAR(5)` | Composite PK (e.g., 'en-US'). |
| `name` | `VARCHAR(100)` | Not Null. |

#### Table: `Attribute_Values`
Contains specific values for an attribute (e.g., "Black").

| Column Name | Data Type | Description and Constraints |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | PK, Auto-incrementing. |
| `attribute_id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | FK to `Attributes.id`. |
| `hex_code` | `VARCHAR(7)` | Nullable (for colors). |

#### Table: `Attribute_Value_Translations`
Translations for attribute values.

| Column Name | Data Type | Description and Constraints |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `attribute_value_id`| `INT UNSIGNED` | Composite PK, FK to `Attribute_Values.id`. |
| `language_code` | `VARCHAR(5)` | Composite PK. |
| `value` | `VARCHAR(100)` | Not Null. |

#### Table: `Brands`
Contains product brands.

| Column Name | Data Type | Description and Constraints |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | PK, Auto-incrementing. |
| `logo_url` | `VARCHAR(255)` | Nullable. |

#### Table: `Brand_Translations`
Translations for brands.

| Column Name | Data Type | Description and Constraints |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `brand_id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | Composite PK, FK to `Brands.id`. |
| `language_code` | `VARCHAR(5)` | Composite PK. |
| `name` | `VARCHAR(100)` | Not Null. |
| `description` | `TEXT` | Nullable. |

#### Table: `Categories`
Contains product categories, with support for sub-categories.

| Column Name | Data Type | Description and Constraints |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | PK, Auto-incrementing. |
| `parent_category_id` | `INT UNSIGNED`| Nullable, FK to `Categories.id`. |

#### Table: `Category_Translations`
Translations for categories.

| Column Name | Data Type | Description and Constraints |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `category_id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | Composite PK, FK to `Categories.id`. |
| `language_code` | `VARCHAR(5)` | Composite PK. |
| `name` | `VARCHAR(100)` | Not Null. |
| `description` | `TEXT` | Nullable. |

#### Table: `Coupons`
Manages discount coupons.

| Column Name | Data Type | Description and Constraints |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | PK, Auto-incrementing. |
| `code` | `VARCHAR(50)` | Unique, Not Null. |
| `discount_type` | `ENUM(...)` | Type: 'percentage' or 'fixed_amount'. |
| `discount_value`| `DECIMAL(10, 2)`| Not Null. |
| `expiry_date` | `TIMESTAMP` | Nullable. |
| `minimum_spend` | `DECIMAL(10, 2)`| Nullable. |
| `usage_limit` | `INT UNSIGNED` | Nullable. |
| `usage_limit_per_user`| `INT UNSIGNED` | Nullable. |
| `is_active` | `BOOLEAN` | Not Null, Default: `TRUE`. |

#### Table: `Orders`
Main information for orders.

| Column Name | Data Type | Description and Constraints |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | PK, Auto-incrementing. |
| `user_id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | FK to `Users.id`. |
| `shipping_address_id` | `INT UNSIGNED`| FK to `Addresses.id`. |
| `coupon_id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | Nullable, FK to `Coupons.id`. |
| `total_amount` | `DECIMAL(10, 2)`| Not Null. |
| `status` | `VARCHAR(50)` | Not Null, Default: 'pending'. |
| `tracking_number` | `VARCHAR(100)`| Nullable. |

#### Table: `Order_Items`
Products contained in an order.

| Column Name | Data Type | Description and Constraints |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | PK, Auto-incrementing. |
| `order_id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | FK to `Orders.id`. |
| `variant_id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | FK to `Product_Variants.id`. |
| `quantity` | `INT UNSIGNED` | Not Null. |
| `price_per_unit`| `DECIMAL(10, 2)`| Price at the time of purchase. |

#### Table: `Order_Tracking_History`
History of tracking statuses.

| Column Name | Data Type | Description and Constraints |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | PK, Auto-incrementing. |
| `order_id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | FK to `Orders.id`. |
| `status` | `VARCHAR(50)` | Not Null. |
| `notes` | `TEXT` | Nullable. |
| `changed_at`| `TIMESTAMP` | Default: current timestamp. |

#### Table: `Product_Categories`
Links products and categories (Many-to-Many).

| Column Name | Data Type | Description and Constraints |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `product_id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | Composite PK, FK to `Products.id`. |
| `category_id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | Composite PK, FK to `Categories.id`. |

#### Table: `Product_Reviews`
User-submitted reviews for products.

| Column Name | Data Type | Description and Constraints |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | PK, Auto-incrementing. |
| `product_id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | FK to `Products.id`. |
| `user_id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | FK to `Users.id`. |
| `rating` | `TINYINT UNSIGNED` | Not Null, Value between 1 and 5. |
| `title` | `VARCHAR(255)` | Nullable. |
| `comment` | `TEXT` | Nullable. |
| `is_verified_purchase` | `BOOLEAN` | Not Null, Default: `FALSE`. |
| `created_at` | `TIMESTAMP` | Default: current timestamp. |

#### Table: `Products`
The "conceptual" or "parent" product.

| Column Name | Data Type | Description and Constraints |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | PK, Auto-incrementing. |
| `brand_id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | Nullable, FK to `Brands.id`. |
| `is_active` | `BOOLEAN` | Default: `TRUE`. |
| `is_featured` | `BOOLEAN` | Default: `FALSE`. |

#### Table: `Product_Images`

| Column Name | Data Type | Description and Constraints |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | PK, Auto-incrementing. |
| `variant_id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | Nullable, FK to `Product_Variants.id`. |
| `image_url` | `varchar(255)` | Not Null. |
| `alt_text` | `varchar(255)` | Nullable. |
| `is_primary` | `BOOLEAN` | Default: `FALSE` |

#### Table: `Product_Translations`
Translations for products.

| Column Name | Data Type | Description and Constraints |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `product_id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | Composite PK, FK to `Products.id`. |
| `language_code` | `VARCHAR(5)` | Composite PK. |
| `name` | `VARCHAR(255)`| Not Null. |
| `description` | `TEXT` | Nullable. |
| `features` | `JSON` | Nullable (for technical specs). |

#### Table: `Product_Variants`
The physical, sellable item, with price and stock.

| Column Name | Data Type | Description and Constraints |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | PK, Auto-incrementing. |
| `product_id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | FK to `Products.id`. |
| `sku` | `VARCHAR(100)`| Unique, Not Null. |
| `price` | `DECIMAL(10, 2)`| Not Null. |
| `sale_price` | `DECIMAL(10,2)` | Nullable. |
| `sale_start_date` | `TIMESTAMP` | Nullable. |
| `sale_end_date` | `TIMESTAMP` | Nullable. |
| `stock_quantity`| `INT` | Not Null, Default: 0. |
| `is_default` | `BOOLEAN` | Default: `FALSE`. |

#### Table: `Users`
Manages users and their roles.

| Column Name | Data Type | Description and Constraints |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | PK, Auto-incrementing. |
| `email` | `VARCHAR(255)`| Unique, Not Null. |
| `password_hash` | `VARCHAR(255)`| Not Null. |
| `first_name` | `VARCHAR(100)`| Nullable. |
| `last_name` | `VARCHAR(100)`| Nullable. |
| `role` | `ENUM(...)` | 'customer' or 'admin', Default: 'customer'. |
| `is_active` | `BOOLEAN` | Default: `TRUE`. |

#### Table: `Variant_Attributes`
Links a variant to its attribute values (Many-to-Many).

| Column Name | Data Type | Description and Constraints |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `variant_id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | Composite PK, FK to `Product_Variants.id`.|
| `attribute_value_id`| `INT UNSIGNED` | Composite PK, FK to `Attribute_Values.id`.|

#### Table: `Wishlist_Items`
Contains users' wishlists.

| Column Name | Data Type | Description and Constraints |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `user_id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | Composite PK, FK to `Users.id`. |
| `variant_id` | `INT UNSIGNED` | Composite PK, FK to `Product_Variants.id`.|
| `added_at` | `TIMESTAMP` | Default: current timestamp. |

---
### Running the Application

Once the database is set up, you can start the application.

1.  **Start the Backend:**
    ```bash
    cd backend
    npm install
    npm start
    ```

2.  **Start the Frontend (in a separate terminal):**
    ```bash
    cd frontend
    npm install
    ng serve
    ```

The application will be available at `http://localhost:4200`.
